# Finding most popular movie

## Dataset!

Each row has:

* User ID
* Movie ID
* Rating
* Timestamp

Time for code!

Import `PopularMovies.scala`

Now let's see the code.

* We start by extracting the data
    - `lines.map(x => (x.split("\t")(1).toInt, 1))`
    - We have a key value where key is movie and value is number 1
* Then reduce by key to count
* Then sort!
* Finally print!

Now we'll merge data in to find the most popular movie!

## Make results readable!

* Display movie names instead of IDs (using u.item file which contains names)
* We could just keep a table loaded in driver program
* Or we could let spark automatically forward it to each executor when needed
* But if table is massive is not the best
    - We'd only want to transfer once to each executor and keep it there

### Introducing Broadcast Variables

* broadcaster objects to the executors, such that they're always there when needed
* Just use sc.broadcast() to ship off whatever you want
* Then use .value when needed

#### In the code it would look like follows 

We start by creating a Map element to map movie IDs to Names!

Also we make sure we set the UTF8 encoding to the codec using:

``` scala
    implicit val codec = Codec("UTF-8")
    codec.onMalformedInput(CodingErrorAction.REPLACE)
    codec.onUnmappableCharacter(CodingErrorAction.REPLACE)
```

Now without using any spark code, using only scala code, we import the data and create the map:

``` scala
    var movieNames:Map[Int, String] = Map()
    val lines = Source.fromFile("../ml-100k/u.item").getLines()
    for (line <- lines) {
        var fields = line.split('|')
        if (fields.length > 1) {
            movieNames += (fields(0).toInt -> fields(1))
        }
    }
```

Then once we have the movie object, we can broadcast it to every node when the time comes!

``` scala
var nameDict = sc.broadcast(loadMovieNames)
```

THe rest is the same, and then finally we use a map to add their corresponding names (where nameDict is our broadcast value)

``` scala
val sortedMoviesWithNames = sortedMovies.map( x  => (nameDict.value(x._2), x._1) )
```

This should give us the results containing the movie name by the movie count.

This could've been done if there needs a distributed map operation, but here we could've just printed it in the for loop.



