# Overview: Installation and Overview

In this course we will learn the following 

* Crashcourse on scala
* Social network on superheroes 
* Movie ratings
* Machine learning analysis
* Graph analysis 

First thing we need to do is install Java, Spark Patch, Scala IDE, etc.... 

# Installing JDK

From oracle website! Now we have it.

# Install spark

For MAC, what we'll do to install, we'll run the following:

```
brew install scala
brew install apache-spark
```

Now spark is installed on `/usr/local/Cellar/apache-spark/2.1.1/libexec`.

And then we should add this to our .profile

```
export SPARK_HOME=/usr/local/Cellar/apache-spark/2.1.1/libexec
export PYTHONPATH=/usr/local/Cellar/apache-spark/2.1.1/libexec/python/:$PYTHONP$
```

Now inside we have spark itself!

It asks to move it to somewhere else in a folder called Spark.

We'll paste the contents of the Spark directory... It's built on Scala which is built on java!

We need to do configuration so open the `conf` folder.

We will see a folder called log4j.properties.template.

And rename to log4j.properties

And now edit the file.

Change the **log4j.rooCategory to ERROR instead of INFO**.

We need to trick Spark that it's in a cluster.

## IDE

Finally download the SCALA IDE

It should be finished decompressing, and then we should be left with a scala IDE.

## Config

We need to open a terminal and go to our spark directory...

```
cd /usr/local/Cellar/apache-spark/

ls
```

We're gonna write a spark app. 

We run `spark-shell` and we see a scala prompt:

``` scala
val rdd = sc.textFile("README.md")
```

Now we have a **resilient distributed dataset** = mini-database where every line is a row.

``` scala
rdd.count()
```

We now have the count!

Now let's start playing with ratings data.







