# Key value RDDs

For example:

* Number of friends by age
* Key is age, value is number of friends
* Instead of just a list of ages or a list of number of friends...
    - We can store (age, # of friends), (age, # of friends)

## Creating a Key/Value RDD

Before we had a row represenging a line of text

But we can use a rdd that has tuples per row

Nothing special in Scala

Just map pairs of data into RDDs using tuples

* `totalsByAge = rdd.map(x => (x, 1)` now we have a key value RDD

Done! And it's also OK if we have more complex values in the value of the tuple.

As long as you have a key, value format its fine.


## Spark can do special stuff with Key value

* `reduceByKey()`: combine values with same key using some function
    - `rdd.reduceByKey( (x, y) => x + y)` woudl just add all of the values
* `groupByKey()`: Group values with the same key
    - We would just have a list of all values associated by that key
* `sortByKey()`: Sort RDD by key values
* `keys(), values()` - Create an RDD of just they keys


## You can do SQL Style Joins on Two KEy/Value RDDs

* join, rightOuterJoin, leftOuterJoin, cogroup, subtractByKey
* we'll look at some later

## Mapping just the values of key/value

* With key/value data use mapValues() and flatMapValues() if your transformation doesn't need keys

# Examples

## Friends by age example

* Input data: ID, name, age, number fo friends
    - ie ("0","will",33,385),...

### The code!

First we need to parse the lines!


``` scala
def parseLine(line:String)= {
    val fields = line.split(",")
    val age = fields(2).toInt
    val numFriends = fields(3).toInt
    (age, numFriends)
}
val lines = sc.textFiel("../fakefriends.csv")
val rdd = lines.map(parseLine)
```

The output is a key value of the number of friends.

now the action

``` scala
val totalsByAge = rdd.mapValues(x => (x, 1)).reduceByKey((x,y) => { x._1 + y._1, x._2 + y._2 })
```
What the mapValues is doing is taking the tuples such as (33,385) and mapping it into (33, (385, 1)).

Then the reduceBykey, would add the values of (33, (385, 1)) as (33, (385+385, 1+1)), etc

We can now compute the averages themselves!

* `val averagesByAge = totalsByAge.mapValues(x => x._1 / x._2)`

Finally we can finally compute the results

``` scala
val results = averagesByAge.collect()
```


