# Scala Basics Part 1

This is just a scala crashcourse

# What is scala?

* Yet another programming language
    - But good for clusters
* It's what spark is built with
    - New features are often scala firts
    - You can also program spark with python / java
    - MUCH FASTER THAN PYTHON!!!!
* Run on top of the java vm
    - Can access Java classes
        + This means that you can pull any libraries in Java
        + We'll do that later in the course
* Functional programming (yay)
    - Take an abstraction of a chunk of data and do the processing of the data

Learning scala is worth it regardless

## Admin

As we do exercises, we'll have the examples.

First thing to do is to get the LearningScala 1.sc

# Starting project

Create a new project called `LearningScala`

We need a separate proejct for worksheet files. There would be a conflict in versions otherwise...

Now click import, and import the folder with verything and import LearningScala1.sc

If we see the sc is a scala worksheet, which is like a notebook, where you can see the results evaluated right in the file.

Everytime you save the worksheet, the comments get added with the ouput of the variables.

## Variables

### inmutable variables

In scala we have mutable and inmutable variables

They encourage inmutable variables that are declared **with val**. 

If we see our code:

* We create an inmutable variable `val hellp: String = "Hola"`
    - We'll try chanigng "Hola" to "Bonjour"
    - When we save it gets re-interpreted.

### Mutable variables

Scala also has mutable variables, as follows:

* var helloThere: String = hello
* helloThere = hello + " There!"
* println(helloThere)

### Functional programming

In functional programming has a lot of functions, and it encourages you to use vals. Don't modify it as you go - instead build new inmutable ones:

* val immutableHelloThere = hello + " There!"
* println(immutableHelloThere)
* val moreStuff = immutableHelloThere + "yeah"
* println(moreStuff)

Worth pointing out that we didn't actually explicitly mentioned what type the code is. Scala infers what type it is.

### Other types

Dealing with strings so far, but there are some:

* `val numberOne : Int = 1`
* `truth : Boolean = true`
* `val letterA : Char = 'a'`
* `val pi : Double : 3.14`
* `val piSinglePrecision : Float = 3.14`
* `bigNumber : Long = 123456789`
* `smallNumber : Byte = 127`

# Printing stuff

Output human readable stuff... If you just want to add bunch of stuff together you can just use the plus sign

* println("Here is a mess: " + numberOne + truth + letterA + pi + bigNumber)







