# Scala Basics Part 5

Again start by importing the stuff in the scala folder.

Now let's have a look at the file.

## Tuples

Tuples - collections of stuff
Inmutable list!

List of objects that you cant change once created!

* We can create a tuple with commas
    - `val captainStuff = ("Picard", "Enterprise", "NCC")` 

### Printing tuples

We can print the tuples by using the dot operator

* println(captainStuff)
* println(captainStuff._1)
* println(captainStuff._2)
* println(captainStuff._3)

It's a 1 based index!!! This is horrible.......

We can also create a tuple with captain and ship they command:

`val picardsShip = "Picard" -> "Enterprise"`

This might show that you want to ensure it's a 2 pair tuple.

``` scala
println(picardsShip._1)
println(picardsShip._2)
```

The tuples also don't have to be same type:

`val abunchOfStuff = ("Kirk", 1964, true)`

# Lists

we can create a list, which is similar to tuple, but has more functionality

`val ship = List("1", "2", "3")`

**Lists are 0-based index!!!!!** This sucks....

* println(shipList(0))

* println(shipList.tail)
* println(shipList.head)

## Iterating

We can iterate through a ship list:

``` scala
for (ship <- shipList) {println(ship)}
```

## Map function

We can also use the map function to transform the list using some expression.

``` scala
val backwardShips = shipList.map( (ship: String) => { ship.reverse } )

for (ship <- backwardShips) { println(ship) }
```

## Reduce

We can also combine lists together

``` scala
val numberList = List(1, 2, 3, 4, 5 )

val sum = numberList.reduce( (x: Int, y: Int) -> x + y )
```

## Filters

In another example we have the ihatefives, and filter that removes any FIVES!

```
val iHateFives = numberList.filter( (x: Int) => x != 5)

val iHateThrees = numberList.filter( _ != 3 )
```

Spark has its own mapreduce and filter operations that take part in RDDs, but it has the exact same context here. We understand how spark works and everything!

## Concat and other list ops

We want to concatenate new lists

``` scala
val moreNumbers = List(6,7,8)

val lotsOfNumbers = numberList ++ moreNumbers

val reversed = numberList.reversed
val sorted = reversed.sorted
val lotsOfDuplicates = numberList ++ numberList
val distinctValues = lotsOfDuplicates.distinct
val maxValue = numberList.max
val total = numberList.sum
val hasThree = iHateThrees.contains(3)
```

# Maps

The way to create them!

```
val shipMap = Map("Kirk" -> "Enterprise", "Pickard" -> "Enterprise")

println(shipMap("Kirk"))
```

But we also need to deal with non-existing keys...

``` scala
println(shipMap.contains("Archer"))
```

Also can deal with exceptions

``` scala
val archerShip = util.Try(shipMap("Archer")) getorElse "Unknown"
```

The Unknown is the fallback value. 

There is a lot more to scala than there is here.... 

We didn't touch OO programming, etc. 

This is all we need to know scala

The best book is Learning Scala from O'Riley...















